Jan 23, 1988.

To load this library, load the ml file "load-all".  This will load the
relevant tactics and will load in the files which form the library.  

NOTE:  This library is not valid in Nuprl 3.0 because of the changes to the
"direct computation" rules.  However, the old versions of these rules can be
restored: see the file "nuprl:lib;=readme.text".

The library cannot always be checked piecemeal.  There are various ML objects
in the library which modify parameters to the tactic collection.  Some of
these objects change tactics in such a way that some previous theorems will
no longer expand properly.  A fairly safe way to expand a particular theorem
is to first check all ML objects in the library from the beginning up to the
theorem.  However, "check first-last" will not successfully expand all the
theorems.  The only way to expand the whole library that is guaranteed to
work is to load each library segment using "load fully" instead of "load".
Loading the ML file "load-and-expand-all" will have this effect.  With
"display maintenance" turned off (using set_display_maintenance_mode), it
takes about twelve hours to completely expand the library on a Symbolics lisp
machine.  If display maintenance is left on, the expansion will take much
longer.  (The computations involved in attempting to maintain the best
possible display form for Nuprl terms drastically slows down some of the
tactics, especially ones which do alot of symbolic computation.)

This library is described in my PhD thesis "Automating Reasoning in an
Implementation of Constructive Type Theory", which is available as a Cornell
Technical Report.  There is also a technical report "Computational Metatheory
in Nuprl", which contains a less-detailed account of the library.  This
latter report is to be published as part of "The Proceedings of the Ninth
International Conference on Automated Deduction", Springer-Verlag LNCS.
Following is the abstract from the paper.

"This paper describes an implementation within Nuprl of mechanisms that
support the use of Nuprl's type theory as a language for constructing
theorem-proving procedures.  The main component of the implementation is a
large library of definitions, theorems and proofs.  This library may be
regarded as the beginning of a book of formal mathematics; it contains the
formal development and explanation of a useful subset of Nuprl's metatheory,
and of a mechanism for translating results established about this embedded
metatheory to the object level.  Nuprl's rich type theory, besides permitting
the internal development of this partial reflection mechanism, allows us to
make abstractions that drastically reduce the burden of establishing the
correctness of new theorem-proving procedures.  Our library includes a
formally verified term-rewriting system."


- Doug Howe